Tetris Game

Overview:-
This Project is a C++ console based implementation of the classic Tetris game.It features all the standard Tetris mechanics,including tetrominoes, line clearing, scoring,
and game-over conditions. The game is designed to be simple but engaging, with a smooth user experience. The player must arrange them to form complete lines to clear them 
and earn points

Features:-
1.Tetromino Pieces: Includes all seven standard tetrominoes (I, O, T, S, Z, J, L).
2.Grid Representation: The game board is a 10x20 grid.
3.Piece Movement: Players can move left/right, rotate, and drop pieces.
4.Gravity: Tetrominoes fall at a constant speed that increases as the game progresses.
5.Collision Detection: Prevents blocks from overlapping or moving out of bounds.
6.Line Clearing: Full rows are removed, and the grid shifts downward.
7.Scoring System: Points are awarded for cleared lines (100 points per line).


Controls:-
(←): Move block left
(→): Move block right
(↓): Move block down faster
(↑): Rotate peice
Spacebar: Hard drop
Escape: Pause or Quit

Game Progression:-
Speed increases after clearing a certain number of lines.
Displays current score and level on-screen.
Detects game-over when blocks reach the top of the grid.

How to Play:-
Run the executable file in a console window.
Use the controls to manipulate tetrominoes and clear rows.
Aim to maximize your score by clearing multiple rows simultaneously.
If the blocks reach the top of the grid, the game ends. You can restart or exit.

Technical details:-
Programming concepts used(OOPS)-Classes and structs are used to manage tetrominoes and game logic.
2D vectors for grid representation.
Structs for tetromino shapes and positions.
Real-Time Input Handling: Captures keyboard input using _kbhit() and _getch() functions for seamless gameplay.
Collision Detection: Ensures pieces fit in the grid without overlapping or going out of bounds.

Code Highlights:
Tetromino Representation: Each tetromino is represented as a 2D vector with specific shapes.
Game Loop: A continuous loop handles drawing, input processing, and gravity mechanics.
Score Calculation:Points are awarded based on the number of cleared rows.
Installation and Execution: Clone or download this repository to your local machine.

🛠️ Installation & Usage

Prerequisites:
C++ compiler (GCC, Clang, or MSVC)
conio.h (for Windows users)
         
Compilation:
To compile the game, use the following command:
 g++ -o tetris tetris.cpp -std=c++11
         
Running the Game:
 ./tetris
         
For Windows users:
 tetris.exe

Future Improvements:
Implement scoring system
Add a more interactive UI
Introduce different difficulty levels
Add sound effects

No support for advanced Tetris features like hold pieces or ghost pieces.
Potential Enhancements:
Add support for other platforms (Linux/macOS).
Implement advanced mechanics such as hold functionality and ghost pieces.
Add sound effects and animations for better user experience.
